Road Trip Home

Mary and I live nestled between wheat fields on the eastern edge of the Palouse. The Palouse is the dry land farming region of southeastern Washington spilling into Idaho which is famous for growing wheat and legumes. Travel is not something we often do, but when we do, it is often a road trip to the big city of Spokane, Washington, about two hours north. No road trip feels complete unless we stop at the Moscow Food Coop on our way through Moscow and stop again on the return.

The ritual of bracketing travel with visits to the COOP evolved slowly. Our justification at first was to get travel snacks, a pesto cheese roll, some dates, Stacy's Pita Chips, carbonated water, or a Salted Caramel Dark Chocolate Almond Kind Bar or two. Later we found the COOP the perfect interval for a bathroom break. 

There is no driving past the COOP. Before we can take time to think about what we are doing, we stop, find our bodies already in motion, and begin to discern the rhythm of our ritual. Repeated road trips over the years have solidified our behaviors and rhythms. They resonate with confidence, they echo the seasons, and the rhythms build connections with place and community.

The ritual of bracketing road trips with visits to the COOP takes the shape of ambient belonging. Ambient belonging to the space and the people in it. Standing in the warm and familiar space of the east foyer of the COOP strengthens our bonds with Moscow and Moscowvites. We are comforted by seeing the bustle of the cashiers checking out customers, customers bagging their groceries, and produce clerks arranging the new fruits and vegetables. Most of the time, we see someone we know and spend a few minutes catching up on local happenings. We get from the physical space of the COOP a place where we feel at home.
