---
UUID:      ›[[202202211002]] 
cdate:     02-21-2022 10:04 AM
tags:      #proofing
zettel:    JAMM328 Profile Body
[[JAMM328 Profile Lede]]
[[JAMM328 Profile Body]]
[[JAMM328 Profile Second Sources]]
[[JAMM328 Profile Climate Change]]
[[JAMM328 Profile Finale]]
---
# Body

### Current studies


### History
Hudak grew up in rural Minnesota near Grand Rapids. At a young age he explored his surroundings finding an ecological wonderland.

"I got attached to being in the woods, raising ducks and chickens and geese. My dad hunted and fished a lot and those interests rubbed off on me." said Hudak.

He was interested in ecology before he even knew what the word meant. 

"Ideas and things I could observe just being out in the woods is all part of ecology so I got interested in that." He said, "I'm sure it has a lot to do with how I grew up."

He got his love of the outdoors from his father and his work ethic from his mother. 

Hudak worked is way through college with shift work the paper mill where his mom worked. It had long periods of slow time when everything was running smoothly which allowed study and homework time. "The more I worked the better my grades." said Hudak.

His formal education started at a local community college, then transferring to the University of Minnesota at St. Paul. He graduated with one of the first degrees in Ecology from the University of Minnesota.

His application to graduate school at the University of Colorado and his application to join the Peace Corps both came through. Now it was decision time. 

It was off to Malawi, Africa. They need a secondary school science teacher, and he had a science degree. "Teaching is one thing you can do with a science degree." said Hudak.

While in Africa, he became interested in applied land management issues. Africa has a big problem with deforestation and Hudak questioned what he could do to study "this problem and maybe contribute".
